adele was compelling because she was a
mixture of so many sort of so many
complicated things and so many simple
things as well you know this was a woman
who had absolutely lost her way and lost
her sense of self lost her sense of
femininity sexuality lost her drive her
zest for life because of the sadness
that she had experienced and you know
she was a sort of a burning flame when
she was younger and to have gone through
so much and to have that flame all but
put out you know struck me as something
that was not only incredibly sad but
admirable actually how she had managed
to carry on living as much of a life as
she did and raising her son you know the
one thing she was able to do was to be a
good parent and to do it very very well
you know her child was a really great
boy and I think this there's there's a
heck of a lot of courage behind that and
strength in that so the combination of
fragility and vulnerability in her
combined with the strength was just
fascinating
I loved the way that you know you put
these two people Frank and Adele
together in the most unlikely of
circumstances and it's very natural very
simple thing happens between the two of
them which is that they have a
connection you know they'd lived for a
long time in a certain degree of
isolation hers because she just didn't
feel she could go out into the world and
his because he was in prison but at the
same time what they hoped for in life
was to be happy and to find a partner
and to have a really simple just lovely
existence and actually meeting two
people in the most unlikely of
circumstances who both wanted the same
thing was quite special and the way that
the love story unfolds and you see this
at a gentle connection that is formed
between them which isn't salacious you
know there's no nudity you know there's
actually very little kissing even but
you don't doubt for one second that
those two people are supposed to be
together and it's very clever the story
and in in in in that sense because you
least you really don't expect it
I think Jason as a filmmaker is well not
only is he incredibly skilled and a
wonderful storyteller but he isn't
afraid to just try something new I mean
all of his films have been very
different and one thing that we've been
hearing a lot actually the last 24 hours
is wow this is a very different film for
you and why did you make this choice
Jason and it's really odd because I
don't think he's even particularly aware
that it was a he wasn't really making a
specific choice I don't think it was
just something different another
different story to tell and you know
that's what makes a great filmmaker is
someone who's prepared to try something
new and take those risks so the writing
for me I think the the most striking
thing about the writing was that it was
very close to the book and often with an
adaptation that doesn't happen but he
was very respectful of the original
story and of Joyce maynard's
writing style and what happened in the
film actually was that although you
don't really notice it there isn't that
much dialogue I mean there isn't as much
dialogue as there might have been in a
lot of Jason's previous films
particularly Juna which is all about
conversation but this film you know the
the looks and the pauses were the
dialogue and the camera angles and the
way the sweat runs down the side of
someone's face you know those moments
were where a lot of the story is
actually told and I think that he did
that very deftly with this grip because
those moments don't happen by chance
they were written in it's just that no
one says anything and that's also great
writing
Gatlin honestly was the perfect Henry
because he's he is very similar to to
that boy he's a he's a very very gentle
kind polite respectful young man and we
were just so fortunate to have him and
at the same time he he really wanted to
learn you know he really wanted to reach
out and have someone to turn to and he
had lots of questions to ask and I was
very privileged to be the person who was
able to do that for him and and to be
that sort of protective wing and and
also I knew that I I needed to create a
gentle relationship with him off screen
whereby he would feel comfortable with
me flinging my arms around him and
giving a big hug at the beginning of
every day and you know that not not not
everyone is oh is okay with that you
know and certainly not a young teenage
boy but Adelle and Henry do have a very
warm very close relationship in a way
that it's quite unusual I think and so I
just knew that I had to achieve that
level of trust with Gatlin off screen so
that we could have it on screen and you
know I just I just felt very very
blessed that that he let me do that